Welcome to this video
about strong and weak
passwords. Passwords
are one of the most
common ways to
protect accounts
online. In this video
, you will learn why
some passwords are
safe and others are
risky. Understanding
this helps keep your
digital identity
secure.
Passwords exist to
protect accounts from
other people. They
act like a secret key
that only the real
user should know.
When passwords are
weak, this protection
does not work well.
That is why password
strength matters.
A weak password is
easy to guess. It
often uses short
words, simple numbers
or personal
information.
Attackers try these
passwords first
because they are very
common. Weak
passwords make
attacks fast and easy
. Examples of weak
passwords include
1234, password or
your own name.
Birthdays, pet names
and favourite teams
are also risky. These
details are easy for
others to find or
guess. Using them
makes accounts unsafe
. Attackers use
computer programs to
guess passwords.
These programs can
try thousands of
passwords very
quickly. Weak
passwords are often
guessed in seconds.
This is why strength
is so important. A
strong password is
hard to guess. It
does not include
personal information.
It is long and uses a
mix of different
characters. Strong
passwords slow
attackers down.
Strong passwords use
letters, numbers and
symbols together.
They are usually
longer than simple
passwords. The more
variety and length,
the safer the
password is. This
makes guessing much
harder.
Using the same
password for many
accounts is dangerous
. If one account is
hacked, attackers can
try that password
everywhere. This can
lead to many accounts
being taken over.
Reuse increases the
damage of one mistake
. Sometimes websites
are hacked and
passwords are stolen.
If you reuse
passwords, attackers
can unlock other
accounts too. This is
why each account
should have a
different password.
Unique passwords
limit the risk.
Passwords should
never be shared with
anyone, not with
friends, classmates
or strangers. Sharing
passwords breaks
account protection
completely. Secrets
only work when they
stay secret. Writing
passwords on paper or
notes can be risky.
Others may find them
or take photos. This
can lead to accounts
being accessed
without permission.
Safer solutions exist
. Strong and unique
passwords can be hard
to remember. This
makes people tempted
to choose weak
passwords.
Remembering many
passwords is a real
challenge. That is
why tools can help.
There is a tool that
helps manage many
strong passwords
safely. This tool is
called a password
manager. It helps
avoid weak passwords
and reuse. We will
learn about it next.
Weak passwords are
easy to guess and
risky. Strong
passwords are long,
unique and hard to
guess. Good password
choices protect
digital identity.
Strength really
matters. Next, we
will learn what a
password manager is
and how it helps.
This will make
password safety easier.
Thank you for watching.